Let's look at Francis Galton's data,
and, I just want to note he,
first used this data in 1885, and
that you should read up on Francis Galton.
He's really an interesting character,
in, in history, in general and,
and definitely in
the history of statistics.
Had many quirky aspects
to his personality and
he invented a lot of really great things
and some things that are not so great.
You need to run
install.packages("UsingR").
Here UsingR is the package for the book,
Using R for Introductory Statistics.
Is a great book, and
they've very kindly packaged all these
data sets together in a single R package.
So you need to use UsingR
then the library UsingR to,
to get a lot of the data sets that
we are going to be talking about.
So let's first look at the marginal
distribution of the parents.
In other words, distribution of
the parents disregarding children.
And the marginal distribution of
the children, disregarding parents.
Parent distribution is all heterosexual
couples, correcting for sex,
I guess,
by multiplying the female heights by 1.08.
Here I give my ggplot commands for
creating the two histograms.
On the left,
I have the children's heights.
The X-axis is in inches,
the scale goes from 60 inches to 75.
The Y-axis is the count, the number of
children that fall in each bin of heights.
On the right in the more bluish teal
color, I have the parents heights.
I've broken the association by
the children and the parents by not
doing a scatter plot, and only looking at
the marginal distribution of the children,
and the marginal distribution
of the parents by themselves.
I'd like to use these distributions
to introduce least squares,
and then we'll build on the bivaried
assoc, association after that.
So consider only the child's height,
for, forget for
the moment about using the parent's
height to predict the child's heights.
We just want to find maybe the best
prediction of the child's heights without
any Information, any other information.
Well, probably the best predictor
would be the middle and
how could one define the middle?
Well, let's give one specific definition.
So I'm going to go through a little
bit of the notational mathematics and
if that isn't your thing, then wait just
a minute and we'll go through a sort
of physical experiment,
experiment to sort of explain it visually.
So for the mathematics, let's let y i,
be the height for child i.
Where y 1, is the height for child 1.
Y 2, is the height for child 2, and so on.
My I index here goes from 1 to n, and
being 928 children in
this particular data set.
So the middle is the num will be
the value of mu that minimizes the sum of
the square distances between the observed
data, the y i's, and this value mu.
That's how we define the middle.
It's also related to physics in this so
called physical center of mass of the,
for example, of the histogram that
we showed on the previous slide.
If you thought of those bars as having,
being physical entities, having weight and
trying to figure out where you would
put your finger to balance it out.
That would be the physical center of mass.
You might have guessed that
the answer has to be the mean, right?
The center of the data has to be the mean.
And that does turn out to be the answer.
We'll even go through the proof.
Though, of course,
if that's not your thing then you
don't have to worry about the proof.
Let's use our studio's manipulate
function to experiment
with trying to find that center of mass.
So I've already loaded manipulate,
but maybe I can do it again.
I've loaded the data set Galton.
And I've defined a histogram function here
that executes the ggplot
commands to draw my histogram.
And it takes as an argument mu,
the parameter that we're trying to find.
So let me try my manipulate command here.
Oh, I don't have ggplot2 loaded.
[SOUND] Let's try it again.
There it is.
Okay, now, because we're using
manipulate I can move my slider around.
What I have up here is the value of mu and
the mean squared error,
that is the sum of the squared distances
between the observed data points and
that particular value of mu.
And because I've added up n things,
I might want the average
value instead of the sums.
So I divided by n,
and I get a mean squared error there
instead of the sum of the squared errors.
Okay.
So I can move it around, and notice as I
get toward the center of the histogram,
the mean squared error is going down.
[SOUND] And around there might be as,
the best I can do, 6.34.
Now it's going back up.
And then notice if I move it way up,
it get's up large again there it is at 14.
And so
what you can do is you can play around and
try to find the place
that actually minimizes
the sum of the squared distances between
the observed data points and mu.
This would be the point that
balanced out this histogram.
Now we know with the answer, it has to
be exactly at the average of the child's
height, but you can actually experiment
and see that it minimizes that function.
Here I just give the code again, and
I want to remind everyone that the,
all the lecture notes are in these r mark
down format where you can get the code.
It's embedded in the actual
r mark down file.
So there should be
a file called index.rmd.
You can go into the index.rmd file and
get all the r code for
all of the lectures in
the entire specialization.
Here I'm just reiterating that the least
squares estimate is the empirical mean.
And I'm showing exactly where
that would be with, and, and,
giving you the ggplot commands
to create this same plot.